hi always cristina da suona pianoforte
dot com
in this video I want to show you
which are the harmonic turns of the blues and
how can you put them into practice?
in case you like it if this specific
topic well here we have an example of
you can see four lines that
they are divided here by the temples and they are
numbered
we have the right hand and the hand
I left as I showed you in
a previous video
below we have only notes to which
what agreements correspond to
I wanted to explain you well is for example that
what does this 9 mean because it is
very important as both blues and
rock to jazz use chords
which are no longer just agreements
fundamentals type do mi sol
but they add inside theirs
harmony add other notes as per
example
here is a typical ninth agreement
blues well we see exercise 1 and you it
I show directly on the
keyboard
then
then agreement re m minor has no ti
I remember that we are always in the shade
of C major is the second degree
compared ad hoc and 9 because why re ago
there
c then 357
this is a grandmother because she comes up
at the ninth interval
then soul ninth
and i have
what you are seeing now is that who
will sound soon called cadences that
what the cadences are practically
a succession of short agreements ie
short in the sense of few agreements that
conclude
let's take a second fifth first example
it's the classic cadence of blues but also
of jazz
see second second first again
second fifth first second fifth
first the one that changes
as you can see from exercise 1 to 2
at 3 to 4
are the chords of the right hand
then from our left that is from
left we do hours
and build upon the ninth agreement
ok
I put all these agreements in you
attached in pdf so now you get them
I'll show you then you can put them in
practice yourself
exercise between
exercise 4